README.md, before:

# Jenkins-demo

Jenkins token: 6d6f51cce565a450952a2798a7d9e34fc26e9f1

## Running Jenkins in Docker
for running Jenkins to build docker images, the Jenkins container should:
1. running in privilleged mode
2. docker installed inside container

```=cmd
# running jenkins
sudo docker run --name jenkins -d --restart always -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 -v /var/lib/Jenkins:/var/jenkins_home -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --privileged alan0415/jenkins-docker:v1
```
### Reference Link
[runnning Jenkins in docker](https://ithelp.ithome.com.tw/articles/10200621)
[Dockerfile recipe for building Jenkins images with docker inside](https://www.edureka.co/community/55640/jenkins-docker-docker-image-jenkins-pipeline-docker-registry)

## Enable Jenkins-docker plugin connect to docker server
1. modify files as follow
```
# /etc/default/docker
DOCKER_OPTS="-H tcp://0.0.0.0:2375 -H unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
```
2. modufy files a below:
```
# vim /etc/default/docker
ExecStart=/usr/bin/dockerd -H fd:// -H tcp://0.0.0.0:2375
```
```
# vim /lib/systemd/system/docker.service
ExecStart=/usr/bin/dockerd -H fd://                <--- before
ExecStart=/usr/bin/dockerd -H fd:// -H tcp://0.0.0.0:2375    <--- After
```
3. reload daemon and restart docker service
```=cmd
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart docker
```
### Reference Link
[step 1](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47709208/how-to-find-docker-host-uri-to-be-used-in-jenkins-docker-plugin)
[step 2](https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-plugin/issues/637)

## Build docker image

Commit message:

Update: how to setup the connection between Jenkins and Gitea server.

README.md, after:

# Jenkins-demo

Jenkins token: 6d6f51cce565a450952a2798a7d9e34fc26e9f1

## Running Jenkins in Docker
for running Jenkins to build docker images, the Jenkins container should:
1. running in privilleged mode
2. docker installed inside container

To build Jenkins server images, reference to dockerfile directory.
```=cmd
# running jenkins
sudo docker run --name jenkins -d --restart always -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 -v /var/lib/Jenkins:/var/jenkins_home -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --privileged alan0415/jenkins-docker:v1
```
### Reference Link
[runnning Jenkins in docker](https://ithelp.ithome.com.tw/articles/10200621)
[Dockerfile recipe for building Jenkins images with docker inside](https://www.edureka.co/community/55640/jenkins-docker-docker-image-jenkins-pipeline-docker-registry)

## Enable Jenkins-docker plugin connect to docker server
1. modify files as follow
```
# /etc/default/docker
DOCKER_OPTS="-H tcp://0.0.0.0:2375 -H unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
```
2. modufy files a below:
```
# vim /etc/default/docker
ExecStart=/usr/bin/dockerd -H fd:// -H tcp://0.0.0.0:2375
```
```
# vim /lib/systemd/system/docker.service
ExecStart=/usr/bin/dockerd -H fd://                <--- before
ExecStart=/usr/bin/dockerd -H fd:// -H tcp://0.0.0.0:2375    <--- After
```
3. reload daemon and restart docker service
```=cmd
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart docker
```
![](https://i.imgur.com/SRNWwhu.png)

### Reference Link
[step 1](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47709208/how-to-find-docker-host-uri-to-be-used-in-jenkins-docker-plugin)
[step 2](https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-plugin/issues/637)

## Jenkins connect
### Gitea
To make Gitea connect to Jenkins server, you need to install Gitea plugin, and configure gitea server in Global configure>Gitea Server
![](https://i.imgur.com/ztU2MgB.png)

#### Pipeline
1. Generate API token at Jenkins server
at user>configuration:
![](https://i.imgur.com/poYFous.png)
or you can just define a token by yourself.
2. start a new project in Jenkins, using pipeline. the figure below shown some configuration.
![](https://i.imgur.com/7FbWXK5.png)
the token in figure can defined by yourself.
3. In gitea repo, fill in the target URL as Jenkins example: 
```
可以透過下列 URL 觸發建置: JENKINS_URL/job/Golang1.13-testing/build?token=TOKEN_NAME 或 /buildWithParameters?token=TOKEN_NAME
可以再加上 &cause=原因，參數內容將被記錄到建置原因中。
```
the token must same as the token filled in Jenkins pipeline setting.
![](https://i.imgur.com/Pf41hOe.png)
4. after set up the configure in both side, you can test configuration in gitea configuration, webhook update.
![](https://i.imgur.com/IjPVzI8.png)

While pushing code to gitea server will trigger Jenkins pipeline, remenber to put Jenkinsfile in the root of repo, or you can define its location in Jenkins pipeline configuration.
